[MUSIC]
So this lecture we'll talk a little bit
about the internet and structure and
we'll get into internet protocols.
Protocols in general.
We'll talk about what
a network protocol is.
We have to know a little bit about these.
We don't want to go into
detail in protocols.
But you have to know they exist because
the hardware that we buy when we make our
IOT device,
the hardware that we buy, we'll buy
it matching a particular protocol.
So we'll pick the protocol and
pick the hardware to match that.
So we need to know at least the existence
of protocols and what they are.
So, internet structure is ad hoc,
that is, it's very irregular, right?
People can join the network,
leave the network.
I can open up a laptop in
this room right now and
suddenly it will be part of the internet,
right, and people can send messages to it.
And then if I shut if off, it is now
temporarily no longer part of the network.
So, the internet is very dynamic.
Somebody can build up a new network
right now, plug it into the wall, and
bam, there's a new addition to the
internet, and that happens all the time.
It has an unpredictable structure,
but it still has to work.
Actually, it's pretty amazing
that it works as well as it does,
given the fact that it's so crazy.
So it can be changed by anyone at any
time, so you have to be able to send
messages between this wide
variety of network types, right.
So you've got these LANs that
maybe use different protocols,
routers that are speaking different
protocols, destination LAN,
it speaks a different protocol.
And so you've got this,
you've got to be able to consistently send
messages regardless of everything else.
That means if I set up a host in my
office, I set up a network in my office,
that thing has got to be able to talk to
some LAN on the other side of the world
without knowing anything about
the protocol of that LAN.
Right?
And
without knowing only minimal about it,
right?
I don't know what type of protocol
they're gonna use on that LAN.
All I know is I wanna send a message
to a machine on that LAN, right?
So you have very little structure, but
you still have to have some level of
uniformity so that everybody can talk.
So how is it possible to send bits,
bits meaning messages,
across these networks hop to hop through
these different networks with different
sort of different protocols essentially.
So, we'll talk about these protocols,
let's define them.
Protocols are basically a set of rules,
rules of communication.
If we're talking about for
network protocols it's a set
of rules of communication.
And there are a lot of rules.
But generally, it's a set of rules,
hopefully a minimal set of rules, which as
long as everybody adheres to those rules.
Everybody can communicate, okay?
And you wanna make these rules minimal so
that they're not a burden
on the local area network.
So you wanna give people who are building
their local area networks as much freedom
as you can as to how they
design their network.
But there have to be some protocol rules
that they adhere to, some minimal rules
which will allow them to communicate
with all the other local area networks.
Through the internet.
So the internet has protocols
associated with it, which
if you wanna talk on the internet, your
networks have to support these protocols.
Now just to give you some intuition
about what a protocol is,
it's basically something that you add.
It usually involves
adding data to a method.
Okay, regular type of data to a message.
So if you ever watch old movies,
or cop movies,
something like that and they're on
the radio, and they say something.
Something something something over, right.
Over, they say over at the end
of their message right?
And as soon as they say over,
somebody else can start talking.
Right?
And then when they're done they just say
over and out, right?
So this is a protocol.
Cuz what it says is that every
time you send a message,
I don't care what the content is,
I don't care what the words are.
Just make sure that at the end of that
message you say the word over, right?
And no matter what the content
of the entire conversation was,
just make sure that at the end of that
conversation you say over and out.
As long as you follow those rules,
everybody can talk.
Because the goal of those protocols is,
the radio protocols with humans talking on
radio, is so that two people aren't
talking over each other, right.
You want to make sure that one
person's talking at a time.
So whoever is talking can keep
talking until they say the word over.
When they say that, the other person
knows oh, now it's my turn, and
they talk until they say over.
So over's like passing the baton
to the other person to talk.
And as long as you adhere to those simple
rules, it doesn't matter what you say,
what the content is,
you can talk with somebody else.
Now there are limits to that, right,
because there's no rule about how long
you can talk before you say, over.
So you could just talk all day and
then finally say, over, and
then you would be a bottleneck to
the network and that would be a problem.
So internet access has rules
to handle that, right.
There are time limits and
things like this.
But you get the idea.
A protocol is basically extra data that
you add, is represented by extra data
you add to the message, like the word
over or the word over and out.
Right.
There all kinds of rules that
extra data that you put in there
that are used to enable communication.
So we call those, that a protocol, that's
a set of rules that enables communication
which minimally constrains the message.
It adds a little bit of data
to the message typically.
That's what a protocol is, and
TCP/IP is the most common set
of protocols for internet.
In fact specifically IP stands for
Internet Protocol and
if you're using the internet, if you want
your machine to talk on the internet,
they have to use Internet Protocol.
They have to adhere to the rules of IP.
Now TCP/IP TCP is another protocol and
that protocol is,
it also is used in conjunction
with the internet.
So if you use the internet you're
either using TCP or UDP, right?
And you're using IP.
So I said TCP/IP it could also be UCP,
UDP/IP.
A Universal Datagram Packet, if I recall.
Protocol, sorry.
And IP.
You put those together and
that's internet.
So you can do anything else you want,
you can add all kinds of
other data into the message.
As long as you adhere to those protocols,
you can talk on the internet and
your machines can communicate with
other machines on the internet.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]